WINDOWS SECURITY STATUS REPORT --- README

What this is A PowerShell script that reads and prints Windows Security
settings in a compact, human-friendly format. Designed to show Defender,
account protection, firewall, SmartScreen, core isolation, and recent
scan info.

Requirements - Windows 10 or 11. - Run as Administrator. - PowerShell
with built-in Defender cmdlets (Get-MpPreference, Get-MpComputerStatus,
Get-NetFirewallProfile, Get-NetConnectionProfile). PowerShell 5.1 or
later recommended. - Script relies on registry reads for some settings.

Files - Sonnet-StatusReport.ps1 --- the script (insert your filename).

Quick usage Open an elevated PowerShell prompt and run:
Set-ExecutionPolicy -Scope Process -ExecutionPolicy Bypass
.`\Sonnet`{=tex}-StatusReport.ps1

Or run directly from an elevated session: powershell -NoProfile
-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File .`\Sonnet`{=tex}-StatusReport.ps1

What the script checks - Virus & threat protection (real-time, cloud,
sample submission, tamper protection, controlled folder access). -
Account protection (Windows Hello, Dynamic Lock, facial recognition). -
Firewall & network protection (Domain/Private/Public profiles, active
networks). - App & browser control (SmartScreen states, phishing
protection, PUA blocking, Edge PUA downloads). - Device security (Core
isolation memory integrity, kernel stack protection, LSA protection,
vulnerable driver blocklist). - Scan information (last quick/full scan
times, signature version, last update).

Output conventions - A cyan section header and divider for each area. -
Status icons: ‚úì = enabled/healthy. ‚úó = disabled/not configured. ? =
unable to determine (permission/reg key missing). - Plain text lines
show the feature name beside the icon.

Notes and caveats - Some values are per-user. Run from the user session
that owns those settings when needed. - Edge SmartScreen PUA download
detection checks multiple registry locations and policies. False
negatives possible if Edge uses unusual configuration paths. - Tamper
protection detection uses registry keys that may vary by Windows build.
If detection fails the script reports "Unable to determine". - The
script prints values. It does not change system state. Use group policy
or official APIs to change settings.

Troubleshooting - If Get-MpPreference or Get-MpComputerStatus is
missing, ensure Windows Defender features are present and you are on a
compatible Windows build. - If the script outputs many ? entries,
confirm you ran PowerShell elevated. - If Get-NetFirewallProfile fails,
run in an environment with the NetSecurity module available (Windows
firewall feature).

Customization hints - Modify Write-StatusIcon to change symbols or
colors. - Add -Verbose or -Debug switches to functions for expanded
logging. - Export results to JSON by collecting fields into objects and
calling ConvertTo-Json.

Example output (abridged) üõ°Ô∏è Virus & threat protection ‚úì Real-time
protection ‚úó Dev Drive protection ‚úì Cloud-delivered protection

üë§ Account protection ‚úì Windows Hello ‚úó Dynamic lock

Safety and permissions Run only on systems you own or administer. The
script requires elevated privileges for accurate results.

License Use freely. No warranty. Modify at will.
